Documentation/guides/AndroidAssetPacks.md, before:

g# Android Asset Packs

Google Android began supporting splitting up the app package into multiple
packs with the introduction of the `aab` package format. This format allows
the developer to split the app up into multiple `packs`. Each `pack` can be
downloaded to the device either at install time or on demand. This allows
application developers to save space and install time by only installing
the required parts of the app initially. Then installing other `packs`
as required.

There are two types of `pack`. The first is a `Feature` pack, this type
of pack contains code and other resources. Code in these types of `pack`
can be launched via the `StartActivity` API call. At this time due to
various constraints .NET Android cannot support `Feature` packs.

The second type of `pack` is the `Asset` pack. This type of pack ONLY
contains `AndroidAsset` items. It CANNOT contain any code or other
resources. This type of `pack` can be installed at install-time,
fast-follow or ondemand. It is most useful for apps which contain a lot
of `Assets`, such as Games or Multi Media applications.
See the [documentation](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/asset-delivery) for details on how this all works.

## Asset Pack Specification

We want to provide our users the ability to use `Asset` packs without
having rely on hacks provided by the community.

The new idea is to make use of additional metadata on `AndroidAsset`
Items to allow the build system to split up the assets into packs
automatically. So it is proposed that we implement support for something
like this

```xml
<ItemGroup>
   <AndroidAsset Include="Asset/data.xml" />
   <AndroidAsset Include="Asset/movie.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Include="Asset/movie2.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
</ItemGroup>
```

In this case the additional `AssetPack` attribute is used to tell the
build system which pack to place this asset in. If the `AssetPack` attribute is not present, the default behavior will be to include the asset in the main application package.
Since auto import of items is common now we need a way for a user to add this additional attribute to auto included items. Fortunately we are able to use the following.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie1.mp4" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie2.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie3.mp4" AssetPack="assets2" />
</ItemGroup>
```

This code uses the `Update` attribute to tell MSBuild that we are going
to update a specific item. Note in the sample we do NOT need to include
an `Update` for the `data.xml`, since this is auto imported it will still
end up in the main feature in the aab.

Additional attributes can be used to control what type of asset pack is
produced. The only extra one supported at this time is `DeliveryType`,
this can have a value of `InstallTime`, `FastFollow` or `OnDemand`.
The `DeliveryType` attribute will be picked up from the first item which has it
for a specified `AssetPack`. For example the `DeliveryType` attribute in the
code below will be applied to the items for `AssetPack` `assets1`, it will not be applied
to the other `packs` or the `base` pack.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie1.mp4" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie2.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" DeliveryType="InstallTime" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie3.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie4.mp4" AssetPack="assets2" />
</ItemGroup>
```

See Google's [documentation](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/asset-delivery#asset-updates) for details on what each of the `DeliveryType` values do.

If however you have a large number of assets it might be cleaner in the csproj to make use of the `base` value for the `AssetPack` attribute. In this scenario you update ALL assets to be in a single asset pack then use the `AssetPack="base"` metadata to declare which specific assets end up in the base aab file. With this you can use wildcards to move most assets into the asset pack.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
   <AndroidAsset Update="Assets/*" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Assets/movie.mp4" AssetPack="base" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Assets/some.png" AssetPack="base" />
</ItemGroup>
```

In this example, `movie.mp4` and `some.png` will end up in the `base` aab file, but ALL the other assets will end up in the `assets1` asset pack.

At this time @(AndroidAsset) build action does not support 'AssetPack' or 'DeliveryType' Metadata in Library Projects.

## Implementation Details

There are a few changes we need to make in order to support this feature.
One of the issues we will hit is the build times when dealing with large assets.
Current the assets which are to be included in the `aab` are COPIED
into the `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assets` directory. This folder is
then passed to `aapt2` for the build process.

The new system adds a new directory `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assetpacks`.
This directory would contain a subdirectory for each `pack` that the
user wants to include.

```dotnetcli
assetpacks/
    assets1/
        assets/
            movie2.mp4
    assets2/
        assets/
             movie3.mp4
```

All the building of the `pack` zip file would take place in these subfolders.
The name of the pack will be based on the main "packagename" with the asset pack
name appended to the end. e.g `com.microsoft.assetpacksample.assets1`.

During the build process we identify ALL the `AndroidAsset` items which
define an `AssetPack` attribute. These files are then copied to the
new `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assetpacks` directory rather than the
existing `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assets` directory. This allows us to
continue to support the normal `AndroidAsset` behavior while adding the
new system.

Once we have collected and copied all the assets we then use the new
`GetAssetPacks` Task to figure out which asset packs we need to create.
We then call the `CreateDynamicFeatureManifest` to create a required
`AndroidManifest.xml` file for the asset pack. This file will end
up in the same `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assetpacks` directory.
We call this Task `CreateDynamicFeatureManifest` because it can be used
to create any feature pack if and when we get to implement full feature
packs.

```dotnetcli
assetpacks/
    assets1/
        AndroidManifest.xml
        assets/
            movie2.mp4
    assets2/
        AndroidManifest.xml
        assets/
             movie3.mp4
```

We can then call `aapt2` to build these packs into `.zip` files. A new
task `Aapt2LinkAssetPack` takes care of this. This is a special version
of `Aapt2Link` which implements linking for asset packs only.
It also takes care of a few problems which `aapt2` introduces. For some
reason the zip file that is created has the `AndroidManifest.xml` file
in the wrong place. It creates it in the root of the zip file, but the
`bundletool` expects it to be in a `manifest` directory.
`bundletool` will error out if its not in the right place.
So `Aapt2LinkAssetPack` takes care of this for us. It also removes a
`resources.pb` which gets added. Again, `bundletool` will error if this
file is in the zip file.

Once the zip files have been created they are then added to the
`AndroidAppBundleModules` ItemGroup. This will ensure that when the
final `.aab` file is generated they are included as asset packs.

## Alternative Methods

An alternative method is available on [github](https://github.com/infinitespace-studios/MauiAndroidAssetPackExample).
This method allows developers to place additional assets in a special
[NoTargets](https://github.com/microsoft/MSBuildSdks/blob/main/src/NoTargets/README.md) project. This project is built just after the final `aab` is
produced. It builds a zip file which is then added to the `@(Modules)`
ItemGroup in the main application. This zip is then included into the
final app as an additional feature.

Using a separate project like in the hack is one way to go. It does have some
issues though.

1. It is a `special` type of project. It requires a `global.json` which imports the
   `NoTargets` sdk.
2. There is no IDE support for building this type of project.

Having the user go through a number of hoops to implement this for
.NET Android or .net Maui is not ideal.

Commit message:

Update docs with testing info

Documentation/guides/AndroidAssetPacks.md, after:

g# Android Asset Packs

Google Android began supporting splitting up the app package into multiple
packs with the introduction of the `aab` package format. This format allows
the developer to split the app up into multiple `packs`. Each `pack` can be
downloaded to the device either at install time or on demand. This allows
application developers to save space and install time by only installing
the required parts of the app initially. Then installing other `packs`
as required.

There are two types of `pack`. The first is a `Feature` pack, this type
of pack contains code and other resources. Code in these types of `pack`
can be launched via the `StartActivity` API call. At this time due to
various constraints .NET Android cannot support `Feature` packs.

The second type of `pack` is the `Asset` pack. This type of pack ONLY
contains `AndroidAsset` items. It CANNOT contain any code or other
resources. This type of `pack` can be installed at install-time,
fast-follow or ondemand. It is most useful for apps which contain a lot
of `Assets`, such as Games or Multi Media applications.
See the [documentation](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/asset-delivery) for details on how this all works.

## Asset Pack Specification

We want to provide our users the ability to use `Asset` packs without
having rely on hacks provided by the community.

The new idea is to make use of additional metadata on `AndroidAsset`
Items to allow the build system to split up the assets into packs
automatically. So it is proposed that we implement support for something
like this

```xml
<ItemGroup>
   <AndroidAsset Include="Asset/data.xml" />
   <AndroidAsset Include="Asset/movie.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Include="Asset/movie2.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
</ItemGroup>
```

In this case the additional `AssetPack` attribute is used to tell the
build system which pack to place this asset in. If the `AssetPack` attribute is not present, the default behavior will be to include the asset in the main application package.
Since auto import of items is common now we need a way for a user to add this additional attribute to auto included items. Fortunately we are able to use the following.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie1.mp4" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie2.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie3.mp4" AssetPack="assets2" />
</ItemGroup>
```

This code uses the `Update` attribute to tell MSBuild that we are going
to update a specific item. Note in the sample we do NOT need to include
an `Update` for the `data.xml`, since this is auto imported it will still
end up in the main feature in the aab.

Additional attributes can be used to control what type of asset pack is
produced. The only extra one supported at this time is `DeliveryType`,
this can have a value of `InstallTime`, `FastFollow` or `OnDemand`.
The `DeliveryType` attribute will be picked up from the first item which has it
for a specified `AssetPack`. For example the `DeliveryType` attribute in the
code below will be applied to the items for `AssetPack` `assets1`, it will not be applied
to the other `packs` or the `base` pack.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie1.mp4" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie2.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" DeliveryType="InstallTime" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie3.mp4" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Asset/movie4.mp4" AssetPack="assets2" />
</ItemGroup>
```

See Google's [documentation](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/asset-delivery#asset-updates) for details on what each of the `DeliveryType` values do.

If however you have a large number of assets it might be cleaner in the csproj to make use of the `base` value for the `AssetPack` attribute. In this scenario you update ALL assets to be in a single asset pack then use the `AssetPack="base"` metadata to declare which specific assets end up in the base aab file. With this you can use wildcards to move most assets into the asset pack.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
   <AndroidAsset Update="Assets/*" AssetPack="assets1" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Assets/movie.mp4" AssetPack="base" />
   <AndroidAsset Update="Assets/some.png" AssetPack="base" />
</ItemGroup>
```

In this example, `movie.mp4` and `some.png` will end up in the `base` aab file, but ALL the other assets will end up in the `assets1` asset pack.

At this time @(AndroidAsset) build action does not support 'AssetPack' or 'DeliveryType' Metadata in Library Projects.

NOTE: `AssetPacks` are only used when the `AndroidPackageFormat` is set to `aab` (the default for Release). When using the `apk` setting the assets will be placed inside the `apk`.

## Testing and Debugging

In order to test your asset packs in the `Debug` configuration, you will need to make some changes to your `.csproj`. Firstly we need to change the `AndroidPackageFormat` to `aab`. It will be `aab` by default for `Release` builds, but will default to `apk` for `Debug` builds. Setting the `AndroidPackageFormat` to `aab` will disable
fast deployment, so it is advised that you only do this when you need to test your `AssetPacks`.

To test your asset packs add the following to the first `PropertyGroup` in your `.csproj`. 

```xml
<AndroidPackageFormat>aab</AndroidPackageFormat>
<AndroidBundleToolExtraArgs Condition=" '$(Configuration)' == 'Debug' ">--local-testing $(AndroidBundleToolExtraArgs)</AndroidBundleToolExtraArgs>
```

The `--local-testing` argument tells the `bundletool` application to install ALL the asset packs in a local cache on the device. `InstallTime` packs will be installed during the app installation process.

`FastFollow` packs behave like `OnDemand` packs. They will not automatically installed when the game is sideloaded. You will need to request them manually when the game starts.

For more details see [https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/asset-delivery/test](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/asset-delivery/test).

## Implementation Details

There are a few changes we need to make in order to support this feature.
One of the issues we will hit is the build times when dealing with large assets.
Current the assets which are to be included in the `aab` are COPIED
into the `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assets` directory. This folder is
then passed to `aapt2` for the build process.

The new system adds a new directory `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assetpacks`.
This directory would contain a subdirectory for each `pack` that the
user wants to include.

```dotnetcli
assetpacks/
    assets1/
        assets/
            movie2.mp4
    assets2/
        assets/
             movie3.mp4
```

All the building of the `pack` zip file would take place in these subfolders.
The name of the pack will be based on the main "packagename" with the asset pack
name appended to the end. e.g `com.microsoft.assetpacksample.assets1`.

During the build process we identify ALL the `AndroidAsset` items which
define an `AssetPack` attribute. These files are then copied to the
new `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assetpacks` directory rather than the
existing `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assets` directory. This allows us to
continue to support the normal `AndroidAsset` behavior while adding the
new system.

Once we have collected and copied all the assets we then use the new
`GetAssetPacks` Task to figure out which asset packs we need to create.
We then call the `CreateDynamicFeatureManifest` to create a required
`AndroidManifest.xml` file for the asset pack. This file will end
up in the same `$(IntermediateOutputPath)assetpacks` directory.
We call this Task `CreateDynamicFeatureManifest` because it can be used
to create any feature pack if and when we get to implement full feature
packs.

```dotnetcli
assetpacks/
    assets1/
        AndroidManifest.xml
        assets/
            movie2.mp4
    assets2/
        AndroidManifest.xml
        assets/
             movie3.mp4
```

We can then call `aapt2` to build these packs into `.zip` files. A new
task `Aapt2LinkAssetPack` takes care of this. This is a special version
of `Aapt2Link` which implements linking for asset packs only.
It also takes care of a few problems which `aapt2` introduces. For some
reason the zip file that is created has the `AndroidManifest.xml` file
in the wrong place. It creates it in the root of the zip file, but the
`bundletool` expects it to be in a `manifest` directory.
`bundletool` will error out if its not in the right place.
So `Aapt2LinkAssetPack` takes care of this for us. It also removes a
`resources.pb` which gets added. Again, `bundletool` will error if this
file is in the zip file.

Once the zip files have been created they are then added to the
`AndroidAppBundleModules` ItemGroup. This will ensure that when the
final `.aab` file is generated they are included as asset packs.

## Alternative Methods

An alternative method is available on [github](https://github.com/infinitespace-studios/MauiAndroidAssetPackExample).
This method allows developers to place additional assets in a special
[NoTargets](https://github.com/microsoft/MSBuildSdks/blob/main/src/NoTargets/README.md) project. This project is built just after the final `aab` is
produced. It builds a zip file which is then added to the `@(Modules)`
ItemGroup in the main application. This zip is then included into the
final app as an additional feature.

Using a separate project like in the hack is one way to go. It does have some
issues though.

1. It is a `special` type of project. It requires a `global.json` which imports the
   `NoTargets` sdk.
2. There is no IDE support for building this type of project.

Having the user go through a number of hoops to implement this for
.NET Android or .net Maui is not ideal.
