---
title: "Build Process"
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: xamarin
ms.assetid: 3BE5EE1E-3FF6-4E95-7C9F-7B443EE3E94C
ms.technology: xamarin-android
author: mgmclemore
ms.author: mamcle
ms.date: 03/14/2018
---

# Build Process


## Overview

The Xamarin.Android build process is responsible for gluing everything
together:
[generating `Resource.designer.cs`](~/android/internals/api-design.md),
supporting the `AndroidAsset`, `AndroidResource`, and other
[build actions](#Build_Actions), generating
[Android-callable wrappers](~/android/platform/java-integration/android-callable-wrappers.md),
and generating a `.apk` for execution on Android devices.


## Application Packages

In broad terms, there are two types of Android application packages 
(`.apk` files) which the Xamarin.Android build system can generate: 

-   **Release** builds, which are fully self-contained and don't 
    require additional packages to execute. These are the
    packages which would be provided to an App store. 

-   **Debug** builds, which are not. 

Not coincidentally, these match the MSBuild `Configuration` which
produces the package.

### Shared Runtime

The *shared runtime* is a pair of additional Android packages which
provide the Base Class Library (`mscorlib.dll`, etc.) and the
Android binding library (`Mono.Android.dll`, etc.). Debug builds
rely upon the shared runtime in lieu of including the Base Class Library and
Binding assemblies within the Android application package, allowing the
Debug package to be smaller.

The shared runtime may be disabled in Debug builds by setting the 
`$(AndroidUseSharedRuntime)` property to `False`. 

<a name="Fast_Deployment" />

### Fast Deployment

*Fast deployment* works in concert with the shared runtime to further 
shrink the Android application package size. This is done by not 
bundling the app's assemblies within the package. Instead, they are 
copied onto the target via `adb push`. This process speeds up the 
build/deploy/debug cycle because if *only* assemblies are changed,
the package is not reinstalled. Instead, only the updated assemblies are
re-synchronized to the target device. 

Fast deployment is known to fail on devices which block `adb` from 
synchronizing to the directory 
`/data/data/@PACKAGE_NAME@/files/.__override__`. 

Fast deployment is enabled by default, and may be disabled in Debug builds
by setting the `$(EmbedAssembliesIntoApk)` property to `True`.


## MSBuild Projects

The Xamarin.Android build process is based on MSBuild, which is also 
the project file format used by Visual Studio for Mac and Visual Studio.
Ordinarily, users will not need to edit the MSBuild files by hand 
&ndash; the IDE creates fully functional projects and updates them with 
any changes made, and automatically invoke build targets as needed. 

Advanced users may wish to do things not supported by the IDE's GUI, so 
the build process is customisable by editing the project file directly. 
This page documents only the Xamarin.Android-specific features and 
customizations &ndash; many more things are possible with the normal 
MSBuild items, properties and targets. 

<a name="Build_Targets" />

## Build Targets

The following build targets are defined for Xamarin.Android projects:

-   **Build** &ndash; Builds the package.

-   **Clean** &ndash; Removes all files generated by the build process.

-   **Install** &ndash; Installs the package onto the default device or
    virtual device.

-   **Uninstall** &ndash; Uninstalls the package from the default
    device or virtual device.

-   **SignAndroidPackage** &ndash; Creates and signs the package
    (`.apk`). Use with `/p:Configuration=Release` to generate
    self-contained "Release" packages.

-   **UpdateAndroidResources** &ndash; Updates the
    `Resource.designer.cs` file. This target is usually called by the
    IDE when new resources are added to the project.


## Build Properties

MSBuild properties control the behavior of the targets. They are 
specified within the project file, e.g. **MyApp.csproj**, within 
an [MSBuild PropertyGroup element](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/t4w159bs.aspx). 

-   **Configuration** &ndash; Specifies the build configuration to use,
    such as "Debug" or "Release". The
    Configuration property is used to determine default values for
    other properties which determine target behavior. Additional
    configurations may be created within your IDE.

    *By default*, the `Debug` configuration will result in the
    `Install` and `SignAndroidPackage` targets creating a smaller
    Android package which requires the presence of other files and
    packages to operate.

    The default `Release` configuration will result in the
    `Install` and `SignAndroidPackage` targets creating an Android
    package which is *stand-alone*, and may be used without installing
    any other packages or files.

-   **DebugSymbols** &ndash; A boolean value which determines whether
    the Android package is *debuggable*, in combination with the
    `$(DebugType)` property. A debuggable package contains debug
    symbols, sets the `//application/@android:debuggable` attribute to
    `true`, and automatically adds the `INTERNET` permission so that a
    debugger can attach to the process. An application is debuggable if
    `DebugSymbols` is `True` *and* `DebugType` is either the empty
    string or `Full`.

-   **DebugType** &ndash; Specifies the
    [type of debug symbols](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/s5c8athz.aspx) 
    to generate as part of the build, which also impacts whether the
    Application is debuggable. Possible values include:

    - **Full**: Full symbols are generated. If the `DebugSymbols`
      MSBuild property is also `True`, then the Application package is
      debuggable.

    - **PdbOnly**: "PDB" symbols are generated. The
      Application package will *not* be debuggable.

    If `DebugType` is not set or is the empty string, then the
    `DebugSymbols` property controls whether or not th Application is
    debuggable.

    - **AndroidGenerateLayoutBindings** &ndash; Enables generation of [layout code-behind](LayoutCodeBehind.md)
	  if set to `true` or disables it completely if set to `false`. The
	  default value is `false`.
	
### Install Properties

Install properties control the behavior of the `Install` and
`Uninstall` targets.

-   **AdbTarget** &ndash; Specifies the Android target device the
    Android package may be installed to or removed from. The value of
    this property is the same as the
    [`adb` Target Device option](http://developer.android.com/tools/help/adb.html#issuingcommands):

    ```bash
    # Install package onto emulator via -e
    # Use `/Library/Frameworks/Mono.framework/Commands/msbuild` on OS X
    MSBuild /t:Install ProjectName.csproj /p:AdbTarget=-e
    ```


### Packaging Properties

Packaging properties control the creation of the Android package, and are
used by the `Install` and `SignAndroidPackage` targets.
The [Signing Properties](#Signing_Properties) are also relevant
when packaing Release applications.


-   **AndroidApkSigningAlgorithm** &ndash; A string value which specifies
    the signing algorithm to use with `jarsigner -sigalg`.

    The default value is `md5withRSA`.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 8.2.

-   **AndroidApplication** &ndash; A boolean value that indicates
    whether the project is for an Android Application (`True`) or for
    an Android Library Project (`False` or not present).

    Only one project with
    `<AndroidApplication>True</AndroidApplication>` may be present
    within an Android package. (Unfortunately this is not yet verified,
    which can result in subtle and bizarre errors regarding Android
    resources.)

-   **AndroidBuildApplicationPackage** &ndash; A boolean value that
    indicates whether to create and sign the package (.apk). Setting
    this value to `True` is equivalent to using the
    [SignAndroidPackage](#Build_Targets) build target.

    Support for this property was added after Xamarin.Android 7.1.

    This property is `False` by default.

-   **AndroidDexTool** &ndash; An enum-style property with valid
    values of `dx` or `d8`. Indicates which Android [dex][dex]
    compiler is used during the Xamarin.Android build process.
    Currently defaults to `dx`. For further information see our
    documentation on [D8 and R8][d8-r8].

    [dex]: https://source.android.com/devices/tech/dalvik/dalvik-bytecode
    [d8-r8]: D8andR8.md

-   **AndroidEnableDesugar** &ndash; A boolean property that
    determines if `desugar` is enabled. Android does not currently
    support all Java 8 features, and the default toolchain implements
    the new language features by performing bytecode transformations,
    called `desugar`, on the output of the `javac` compiler. Defaults
    to `False` if using `AndroidDexTool=dx` and defaults to `True` if
    using `AndroidDexTool=d8`.

-   **AndroidEnableMultiDex** &ndash; A boolean property that
    determines whether or not multi-dex support will be used in the
    final `.apk`.

    Support for this property was added in Xamarin.Android 5.1.

    This property is `False` by default.

-   **AndroidEnableSGenConcurrent** &ndash; A boolean property that
    determines whether or not Mono's
    [concurrent GC collector](http://www.mono-project.com/docs/about-mono/releases/4.8.0/#concurrent-sgen)
    will be used.

    Support for this property was added in Xamarin.Android 7.2.

    This property is `False` by default.

-   **AndroidErrorOnCustomJavaObject** &ndash; A boolean property that
    determines whether types may implement `Android.Runtime.IJavaObject`
    *without* also inheriting from `Java.Lang.Object` or `Java.Lang.Throwable`:

    ```csharp
    class BadType : IJavaObject {
        public IntPtr Handle {
            get {return IntPtr.Zero;}
        }

        public void Dispose()
        {
        }
    }
    ```

    When True, such types will generate an XA4212 error, otherwise a
    XA4212 warning will be generated.

    Support for this property was added in Xamarin.Android 8.1.

    This property is `True` by default.

-   **AndroidFastDeploymentType** &ndash; A `:` (colon)-separated list
    of values to control what types can be deployed to the
    [Fast Deployment directory](#Fast_Deployment) on the target device
    when the `$(EmbedAssembliesIntoApk)` MSBuild
    property is `False`. If a resource is fast deployed, it is *not*
    embedded into the generated `.apk`, which can speed up deployment
    times. (The more that is fast deployed, then the less frequently
    the `.apk` needs to be rebuilt, and the install process can be
    faster.) Valid values include:

    - `Assemblies`: Deploy application assemblies.

    - `Dexes`: Deploy `.dex` files, Android Resources, and Android
      Assets. **This value can *only* be used on devices running
      Android 4.4 or later (API-19).**

    The default value is `Assemblies`.

    **Experimental**. Added in Xamarin.Android 6.1.

-   **AndroidApplicationJavaClass** &ndash; The full Java class name to
    use in place of `android.app.Application` when a class inherits
    from [Android.App.Application](https://developer.xamarin.com/api/type/Android.App.Application/).

    This property is generally set by *other* properties, such as the
		`$(AndroidEnableMultiDex)` MSBuild property.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 6.1.

-   **AndroidHttpClientHandlerType** &ndash; Controls the default
    `System.Net.Http.HttpMessageHandler` implementation which will be used by
    the `System.Net.Http.HttpClient` default constructor. The value is an
    assembly-qualified type name of an `HttpMessageHandler` subclass, suitable
    for use with
    [`System.Type.GetType(string)`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.type.gettype?view=netcore-2.0#System_Type_GetType_System_String_).

    The default value is `System.Net.Http.HttpClientHandler, System.Net.Http`.

    This may be overridden to instead contain
    `Xamarin.Android.Net.AndroidClientHandler`, which uses the Android
    Java APIs to perform network requests. This allows accessing TLS 1.2 URLs
    when the underlying Android version supports TLS 1.2.  
    Only Android 5.0 and later reliably provide TLS 1.2 support through Java.

    *Note*: If TLS 1.2 support is required on Android versions prior to 5.0,
    *or* if TLS 1.2 support is required with the `System.Net.WebClient` and
    related APIs, then `$(AndroidTlsProvider)` should be used.

    *Note*: Support for this property works by setting the
    [`XA_HTTP_CLIENT_HANDLER_TYPE` environment variable](~/android/deploy-test/environment.md).
    A `$XA_HTTP_CLIENT_HANDLER_TYPE` value found in a file
    with a Build action of `@(AndroidEnvironment)` will take precedence.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 6.1.

-   **AndroidTlsProvider** &ndash; A string value which specifies which
    TLS provider should be used in an application. Possible values are:

    - `btls`: Use
      [Boring SSL](https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl) for
      TLS communication with
      [HttpWebRequest](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.net.httpwebrequest.aspx).
      This allows use of TLS 1.2 on all Android versions.

    - `legacy`: Use the historical managed SSL implementation for
      network interaction. This *does not* support TLS 1.2.

    - `default`: Allow *Mono* to choose the default TLS provider.
      This is equivalent to `legacy`, even in Xamarin.Android 7.3.  
      *Note*: This value is unlikely to appear in `.csproj` values,
      as the IDE "Default" value results in *removal* of the
      `$(AndroidTlsProvider)` property.

    - Unset/the empty string: In Xamarin.Android 7.1,
      this is equivalent to `legacy`.  
      In Xamarin.Android 7.3, this is equivalent to `btls`.

    The default value is the empty string.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 7.1.

-   **AndroidLinkMode** &ndash; Specifies which type of
    [linking](~/android/deploy-test/linker.md) should be
    performed on assemblies contained within the Android package. Only
    used in Android Application projects. The default value is
    *SdkOnly*. Valid values are:

    - **None**: No linking will be attempted.

    - **SdkOnly**: Linking will be performed on the base class
      libraries only, not user's assemblies.

    - **Full**: Linking will be performed on base class libraries and
      user assemblies. **Note:** Using an `AndroidLinkMode` value of *Full* often
      results in broken apps, particularly when Reflection is used. Avoid unless
      you *really* know what you're doing.

    ```xml
    <AndroidLinkMode>SdkOnly</AndroidLinkMode>
    ```

-   **AndroidLinkSkip** &ndash; Specifies a semicolon-delimited (`;`)
    list of assembly names, without file extensions, of assemblies that
    should not be linked. Only used within Android Application
    projects.

    ```xml
    <AndroidLinkSkip>Assembly1;Assembly2</AndroidLinkSkip>
    ```

-   **AndroidLinkTool** &ndash; An enum-style property with valid
    values of `proguard` or `r8`. Indicates which code shrinker is
    used for Java code. Currently defaults to an empty string, or
    `proguard` if `$(AndroidEnableProguard)` is `True`. For further
    information see our documentation on [D8 and R8][d8-r8].

    [d8-r8]: D8andR8.md

-   **LinkerDumpDependencies** &ndash; A bool property which enables
    generating of linker dependencies file. This file can be used as
    input for
    [illinkanalyzer](https://github.com/mono/linker/tree/master/analyzer)
    tool.

    The default value is False.

-   **AndroidManagedSymbols** &ndash; A boolean property that controls
    whether sequence points are generated so that file name and line
    number information can be extracted from `Release` stack traces.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 6.1.

-   **AndroidManifest** &ndash; Specifies a filename to use as the
    template for the app's
    [`AndroidManifest.xml`](~/android/platform/android-manifest.md).
    During the build, any other necessary values will be merged into to
    produce the actual `AndroidManifest.xml`.
    The `$(AndroidManifest)` must contain the package name in the `/manifest/@package` attribute.

-   **AndroidR8JarPath** &ndash; The path to `r8.jar` for use with the
    r8 dex-compiler and shrinker. Defaults to a path in the
    Xamarin.Android installation. For further information see our
    documentation on [D8 and R8][d8-r8].

-   **AndroidSdkBuildToolsVersion** &ndash; The Android SDK 
    build-tools package provides the **aapt** and **zipalign** tools,
    among others. Multiple different versions of the build-tools package
    may be installed simultaneously. The build-tools package chosen for
    packaging is done by checking for and using a
    "preferred" build-tools version if it is present; if
    the "preferred" version is *not* present, then the
    highest versioned installed build-tools package is used.

    The `$(AndroidSdkBuildToolsVersion)` MSBuild property contains
    the prefered build-tools version. The Xamarin.Android build system
    provides a default value in `Xamarin.Android.Common.targets`, and
    the default value may be overridden within youur project file to
    choose an alternate build-tools version, if (for example) the
    latest aapt is crashing out while a previous aapt version is known
    to work.

-   **AndroidSupportedAbis** &ndash; A string property that contains a
    semicolon (`;`)-delimited list of ABIs which should be included
    into the `.apk`.

    Supported values include:

    -   `armeabi-v7a`
    -   `x86`
    -   `arm64-v8a`: Requires Xamarin.Android 5.1 and later.
    -   `x86_64`: Requires Xamarin.Android 5.1 and later.

-   **AndroidUseSharedRuntime** &ndash; A boolean property that is
    determines whether the *shared runtime packages* are required in
    order to run the Application on the target device. Relying on the
    shared runtime packages allows the Application package to be
    smaller, speeding up the package creation and deployment process,
    resulting in a faster build/deploy/debug turnaround cycle.

    This property should be `True` for Debug builds, and `False` for
    Release projects.

-   **AotAssemblies** &ndash; A boolean property that determines
    whether or not assemblies will be Ahead-of-Time compiled into
    native code and included in the `.apk`.

    Support for this property was added in Xamarin.Android 5.1.

    This property is `False` by default.

-   **EmbedAssembliesIntoApk** &ndash; A boolean property that
    determines whether or not the app's assemblies should be embedded
    into the Application package.

    This property should be `True` for Release builds and `False` for
    Debug builds. It *may* need to be `True` in Debug builds if Fast
    Deployment doesn't support the target device.

    When this property is `False`, then the
    `$(AndroidFastDeploymentType)` MSBuild property also controls what
    will be embedd into the `.apk`, which can impact deployment and
    rebuidl times.

-   **EnableLLVM** &ndash; A boolean property that determines whether
    or not LLVM will be used when Ahead-of-Time compiling assemblines
    into native code.

    Support for this property was added in Xamarin.Android 5.1.

    This property is `False` by default.

    This property is ignored unless the `$(AotAssemblies)` MSBuild
    property is `True`.

-   **EnableProguard** &ndash; A boolean property that determines
    whether or not [proguard](http://developer.android.com/tools/help/proguard.html)
    is run as part of the packaging process to link Java code.

    Support for this property was added in Xamarin.Android 5.1.

    This property is `False` by default.

    When `True`,
    [ProguardConfiguration](#ProguardConfiguration) files will be used
    to control `proguard` execution.

-   **JavaMaximumHeapSize** &ndash; Specifies the value of the **java**
    `-Xmx` parameter value to use when building the `.dex` file as part
    of the packaging process. If not specified, then the `-Xmx` option
    supplies **java** with a value of `1G`. This was found to be commonly
    required on Windows in comparison to other platforms.

    Without this value an error could be thrown such as:
    [`_CompileDex` target throws a `java.lang.OutOfMemoryError`](https://bugzilla.xamarin.com/show_bug.cgi?id=18327).

    Customize the value by changing:
    ```xml
    <JavaMaximumHeapSize>1G</JavaMaximumHeapSize>
    ```

-   **JavaOptions** &ndash; Specifies additional command-line options
    to pass to **java** when building the `.dex` file.

-   **MandroidI18n** &ndash; Specifies the internationalization support
    included with the Application, such as collation and sorting
    tables. The value is a comma- or semicolon-separated list of one or
    more of the following case-insensitive values:

    -   **None**: Include no additional encodings.

    -   **All**: Include all available encodings.

    -   **CJK**: Include Chinese, Japanese, and Korean encodings such as
        *Japanese (EUC)* \[enc-jp, CP51932\], *Japanese (Shift-JIS)*
        \[iso-2022-jp, shift\_jis, CP932\], *Japanese (JIS)* \[CP50220\],
        *Chinese Simplified (GB2312)* \[gb2312, CP936\], *Korean (UHC)*
        \[ks\_c\_5601-1987, CP949\], *Korean (EUC)* \[euc-kr, CP51949\],
        *Chinese Traditional (Big5)* \[big5, CP950\], and *Chinese
        Simplified (GB18030)* \[GB18030, CP54936\].

    -   **MidEast**: Include Middle-Eastern encodings such as *Turkish
        (Windows)* \[iso-8859-9, CP1254\], *Hebrew (Windows)*
        \[windows-1255, CP1255\], *Arabic (Windows)* \[windows-1256,
        CP1256\], *Arabic (ISO)* \[iso-8859-6, CP28596\], *Hebrew (ISO)*
        \[iso-8859-8, CP28598\], *Latin 5 (ISO)* \[iso-8859-9, CP28599\],
        and *Hebrew (Iso Alternative)* \[iso-8859-8, CP38598\].

    -   **Other**: Include Other encodings such as *Cyrillic (Windows)*
        \[CP1251\], *Baltic (Windows)* \[iso-8859-4, CP1257\], *Vietnamese
        (Windows)* \[CP1258\], *Cyrillic (KOI8-R)* \[koi8-r, CP1251\],
        *Ukrainian (KOI8-U)* \[koi8-u, CP1251\], *Baltic (ISO)*
        \[iso-8859-4, CP1257\], *Cyrillic (ISO)* \[iso-8859-5, CP1251\],
        *ISCII Davenagari* \[x-iscii-de, CP57002\], *ISCII Bengali*
        \[x-iscii-be, CP57003\], *ISCII Tamil* \[x-iscii-ta, CP57004\],
        *ISCII Telugu* \[x-iscii-te, CP57005\], *ISCII Assamese*
        \[x-iscii-as, CP57006\], *ISCII Oriya* \[x-iscii-or, CP57007\],
        *ISCII Kannada* \[x-iscii-ka, CP57008\], *ISCII Malayalam*
        \[x-iscii-ma, CP57009\], *ISCII Gujarati* \[x-iscii-gu, CP57010\],
        *ISCII Punjabi* \[x-iscii-pa, CP57011\], and *Thai (Windows)*
        \[CP874\].

    -   **Rare**: Include Rare encodings such as *IBM EBCDIC (Turkish)*
        \[CP1026\], *IBM EBCDIC (Open Systems Latin 1)* \[CP1047\], *IBM
        EBCDIC (US-Canada with Euro)* \[CP1140\], *IBM EBCDIC (Germany with
        Euro)* \[CP1141\], *IBM EBCDIC (Denmark/Norway with Euro)*
        \[CP1142\], *IBM EBCDIC (Finland/Sweden with Euro)* \[CP1143\],
        *IBM EBCDIC (Italy with Euro)* \[CP1144\], *IBM EBCDIC (Latin
        America/Spain with Euro)* \[CP1145\], *IBM EBCDIC (United Kingdom
        with Euro)* \[CP1146\], *IBM EBCDIC (France with Euro)* \[CP1147\],
        *IBM EBCDIC (International with Euro)* \[CP1148\], *IBM EBCDIC
        (Icelandic with Euro)* \[CP1149\], *IBM EBCDIC (Germany)*
        \[CP20273\], *IBM EBCDIC (Denmark/Norway)* \[CP20277\], *IBM EBCDIC
        (Finland/Sweden)* \[CP20278\], *IBM EBCDIC (Italy)* \[CP20280\],
        *IBM EBCDIC (Latin America/Spain)* \[CP20284\], *IBM EBCDIC (United
        Kingdom)* \[CP20285\], *IBM EBCDIC (Japanese Katakana Extended)*
        \[CP20290\], *IBM EBCDIC (France)* \[CP20297\], *IBM EBCDIC
        (Arabic)* \[CP20420\], *IBM EBCDIC (Hebrew)* \[CP20424\], *IBM
        EBCDIC (Icelandic)* \[CP20871\], *IBM EBCDIC (Cyrillic - Serbian,
        Bulgarian)* \[CP21025\], *IBM EBCDIC (US-Canada)* \[CP37\], *IBM
        EBCDIC (International)* \[CP500\], *Arabic (ASMO 708)* \[CP708\],
        *Central European (DOS)* \[CP852\]*, Cyrillic (DOS)* \[CP855\],
        *Turkish (DOS)* \[CP857\], *Western European (DOS with Euro)*
        \[CP858\], *Hebrew (DOS)* \[CP862\], *Arabic (DOS)* \[CP864\],
        *Russian (DOS)* \[CP866\], *Greek (DOS)* \[CP869\], *IBM EBCDIC
        (Latin 2)* \[CP870\], and *IBM EBCDIC (Greek)* \[CP875\].

    -   **West**: Include Western encodings such as *Western European
        (Mac)* \[macintosh, CP10000\], *Icelandic (Mac)* \[x-mac-icelandic,
        CP10079\], *Central European (Windows)* \[iso-8859-2, CP1250\],
        *Western European (Windows)* \[iso-8859-1, CP1252\], *Greek
        (Windows)* \[iso-8859-7, CP1253\], *Central European (ISO)*
        \[iso-8859-2, CP28592\], *Latin 3 (ISO)* \[iso-8859-3, CP28593\],
        *Greek (ISO)* \[iso-8859-7, CP28597\], *Latin 9 (ISO)*
        \[iso-8859-15, CP28605\], *OEM United States* \[CP437\], *Western
        European (DOS)* \[CP850\], *Portuguese (DOS)* \[CP860\], *Icelandic
        (DOS)* \[CP861\], *French Canadian (DOS)* \[CP863\], and *Nordic
        (DOS)* \[CP865\].


    ```xml
    <MandroidI18n>West</MandroidI18n>
    ```

-   **MonoSymbolArchive** &ndash; A boolean property which controls
    whether `.mSYM` artifacts are created for later use with
    `mono-symbolicate`, to extract &ldquo;real&rdquo; filename and line
    number information from Release stack traces.

    This is True by default for &ldquo;Release&rdquo; apps which have
    debugging symbols enabled:
    `$(EmbedAssembliesIntoApk)` is True,
    `$(DebugSymbols)` is True, and `$(Optimize)` is True.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 7.1.

-   **AndroidVersionCodePattern** &ndash; A string property which allows
    the developer to customize the `versionCode` in the manifest.
    See [Creating the Version Code for the APK](~/android/deploy-test/building-apps/abi-specific-apks.md)
    for information on deciding a `versionCode`.
    
    Some examples, if `abi` is `armeabi` and `versionCode` in the manifest
    is `123`, `{abi}{versionCode}`
    will produce a versionCode of `1123` when `$(AndroidCreatePackagePerAbi)`
    is True, otherwise will produce a value of 123.
    If `abi` is `x86_64` and `versionCode` in the manifest
    is `44`. This will produce `544` when `$(AndroidCreatePackagePerAbi)`
    is True, otherwise will produce a value of `44`.

    If we include a left padding format string 
    `{abi}{versionCode:0000}`,
    it would produce `50044` because we are left padding the `versionCode`
    with `0`. Alternatively you can use the decimal padding such as
    `{abi}{versionCode:D4}`
    which does the same as the previous example.

    Only '0' and 'Dx' padding format strings are supported since the value
    MUST be an integer.
    
    Pre defined key items

    -   **abi**  &ndash; Inserts the targetted abi for the app
        -   2 &ndash; `armeabi-v7a`
        -   3 &ndash; `x86`
        -   4 &ndash; `arm64-v8a`
        -   5 &ndash; `x86_64`

    -   **minSDK**  &ndash; Inserts the minimum supported Sdk
        value from the `AndroidManifest.xml` or `11` if none is
        defined.

    -   **versionCode** &ndash; Uses the version code direrctly from 
        `Properties\AndroidManifest.xml`. 

    You can define custom items using the `$(AndroidVersionCodeProperties)`
    property (defined next).

    By default the value will be set to `{abi}{versionCode:D6}`. If a developer
    wants to keep the old behaviour you can override the default by setting
    the `$(AndroidUseLegacyVersionCode)` property to `true`

    Added in Xamarin.Android 7.2.

-   **AndroidVersionCodeProperties** &ndash; A string property which
    allows the developer to define custom items to use with the
    `AndroidVersionCodePattern`. They are in the form of a `key=value`
    pair. All items in the `value` should be integer values. For
    example: `screen=23;target=$(_AndroidApiLevel)`. As you can see
    you can make use of existing or custom MSBuild properties in the
    string.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 7.2.

-   **AndroidUseLegacyVersionCode** &ndash; A boolean property will allows
    the developer to revert the versionCode calculation back to its old pre 
    Xamarin.Android 8.2 behaviour. This should ONLY be used for developers 
    with existing applications in the Google Play Store. It is highly recommended
    that the new `$(AndroidVersionCodePattern)` property is used.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 8.2.

-  **AndroidUseManagedDesignTimeResourceGenerator** &ndash; A boolean property which
    will switch over the design time builds to use the managed resource parser rather
    than `aapt`.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 8.1.

-  **AndroidUseApkSigner** &ndash; A bool property which allows the developer to
    use the to the `apksigner` tool rather than the `jarsigner`.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 8.2.

-  **AndroidApkSignerAdditionalArguments** &ndash; A string property which allows
    the developer to provide additional arguments to the `apksigner` tool.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 8.2.

-  **AndroidLintEnabled** &ndash; A bool property which allows the developer to 
    run the android `lint` tool as part of the packaging process.

    -   **AndroidLintEnabledIssues** &ndash; A comma seperated list of lint issues to enable.

    -   **AndroidLintDisabledIssues** &ndash; A comma seperated list of lint issues to disable.

    -   **AndroidLintCheckIssues** &ndash; A comma seperated list of lint issues to check. 
       Note: only these issues will be checked.

    -   **AndroidLintConfig** &ndash; This is a Build action for a lint style config file. This
       can be used to enabled/disable issues to check. Multiple files can use this build
       action as their contents will be merged.

    See [Lint Help](http://www.androiddocs.com/tools/help/lint.html) for more details on
    the android `lint` tooling.

-  **AndroidGenerateJniMarshalMethods** &ndash; A bool property which
   enables generating of JNI marshal methods as part of the build
   process. This greatly reduces the System.Reflection usage in the
   binding helper code.

   By default this will be set to False. If the developers wish to use
   the new JNI marshal methods feature, they can set

        <AndroidGenerateJniMarshalMethods>True</AndroidGenerateJniMarshalMethods>

    in their csproj. Alternatively provide the property on the command
    line via

        /p:AndroidGenerateJniMarshalMethods=True

    **Experimental**. Added in Xamarin.Android 9.2.
    The default value is False.

- **AndroidGenerateJniMarshalMethodsAdditionalArguments** &ndash; A
   string property which can be used to add additional parameters to
   the `jnimarshalmethod-gen.exe` invocation.  This is useful for
   debugging, so that options such as `-v`, `-d`, or `--keeptemp` can
   be used.

   Default value is empty string. It can be set in the csproj file or
   on the command line. For example:

        <AndroidGenerateJniMarshalMethodsAdditionalArguments>-v -d --keeptemp</AndroidGenerateJniMarshalMethodsAdditionalArguments>

   or:

        /p:AndroidGenerateJniMarshalMethodsAdditionalArguments="-v -d --keeptemp"
    Added in Xamarin.Android 9.2.

- **AndroidMultiDexClassListExtraArgs** &ndash; A string property
    which allows developers to pass additional arguments to the 
    `com.android.multidex.MainDexListBuilder` when generating the 
    `multidex.keep` file. 

    One specific case is if you are getting the following error
    during the `dx` compilation.

        com.android.dex.DexException: Too many classes in --main-dex-list, main dex capacity exceeded

    If you are getting this error you can add the following to the
    .csproj.

        <DxExtraArguments>--force-jumbo </DxExtraArguments>
        <AndroidMultiDexClassListExtraArgs>--disable-annotation-resolution-workaround</AndroidMultiDexClassListExtraArgs>

    this should allow the `dx` step to succeed.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 8.3.

- **AndroidEnablePreloadAssemblies** &ndash; A boolean property which controls
    whether or not all managed assemblies bundled within the application package
    are loaded during process startup or not.
    
    When set to `True`, all assemblies bundled within the application package
    will be loaded during process startup, before any application code is invoked.
    This is consistent with what Xamarin.Android did in releases prior to
    Xamarin.Andorid 9.2.
    
    When set to `False`, assemblies will only be loaded on an as-needed basis.
    This allows applications to startup faster, and is also more consistent with
    desktop .NET semantics.  To see the time savings, set the `debug.mono.log`
    System Property to include `timing`, and look for the
    `Finished loading assemblies: preloaded` message within `adb logcat`.
    
    Applications or libraries which use dependency injection may *require* that
    this property be `True` if they in turn require that
    `AppDomain.CurrentDomain.GetAssemblies()` return all assemblies within the
    application bundle, even if the assembly wouldn't otherwise have been needed.

    By default this value will be set to `True`.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 9.2.

### Binding Project Build Properties

The following MSBuild properties are used with
[Binding projects](~/android/platform/binding-java-library/index.md):

-   **AndroidClassParser** &ndash; A string property which controls how
    `.jar` files are parsed. Possible values include:

    - **class-parse**: Uses `class-parse.exe` to parse Java bytecode
      directly, without assistance of a JVM. This value is
      experimental. 


    - **jar2xml**: Use `jar2xml.jar` to use Java reflection to extract
      types and members from a `.jar` file.

    The advantages of `class-parse` over `jar2xml` are:

    - `class-parse` is able to extract parameter names from Java
      bytecode which contains *debug* symbols (e.g. bytecode compiled
      with `javac -g`).

    - `class-parse` doesn't "skip" classes which inherit from or
      contain members of unresolvable types.

    **Experimental**. Added in Xamarin.Android 6.0.

    The default value is `jar2xml`.

    The default value will change in a future release.

-   **AndroidCodegenTarget** &ndash; A string property which controls the code generation target ABI. Possible values include:

    - **XamarinAndroid**: Uses the JNI binding API present in since
      Mono for Android 1.0. Binding assemblies built with with
      Xamarin.Android 5.0 or later can only run on Xamarin.Android 5.0
      or later (API/ABI additions), but the *source* is compatible with
      prior product versions.

    - **XAJavaInterop1**: Use Java.Interop for JNI invocations. Binding
      assemblies using `XAJavaInterop1` can only build and execute with
      Xamarin.Android 6.1 or later. Xamarin.Android 6.1 and later bind
      `Mono.Android.dll` with this value.

      The benefits of `XAJavaInterop1` include:

      - Smaller assemblies.

      - `jmethodID` caching for `base` method invocations, 
        so long as all other binding types in the inheritance 
        hierarchy are built with `XAJavaInterop1` or later.

      - `jmethodID` caching of Java Callable Wrapper constructors for
        managed subclasses.

    The default value is `XAJavaInterop1`.


### Resource Properties

Resource properties control the generation of the 
`Resource.designer.cs` file, which provides access to Android 
resources. 

-   **AndroidResgenExtraArgs** &ndash; Specifies additional
    command-line options to pass to the **aapt** command when
    processing Android assets and resources.

-   **AndroidResgenFile** &ndash; Specifies the name of the Resource
    file to generate. The default template sets this to
    `Resource.designer.cs`.

-   **MonoAndroidResourcePrefix** &ndash; Specifies a *path prefix*
    that is removed from the start of filenames with a Build action of
    `AndroidResource`. This is to allow changing where resources are
    located.

    The default value is `Resources`. Change this to `res` for the
    Java project structure.

-   **AndroidExplicitCrunch** &ndash; If you are building an app with a
    very large number of local drawables, an initial build (or rebuild)
    can take minutes to complete. To speed up the build process, try
    including this property and setting it to `True`. When this
    property is set, the build process pre-crunches the .png files.

    Note: This option is not compatible with the `$(AndroidUseAapt2)`
    option. If `$(AndroidUseAapt2)` is enabled, this functionality
    will be disabled. If you wish to continue to use this feature
    please set `$(AndroidUseAapt2)` to `False`.

    **Experimental**. Added in Xamarin.Android 7.0.

-  **AndroidUseAapt2** &ndash; A bool property which allows the developer to
    control the use of the `aapt2` tool for packaging.
    By default this will be set to false and we will use `aapt`.
    If the developer wishes to use the new `aapt2` functionality
    they can set
        
        <AndroidUseAapt2>True</AndroidUseAapt2>
        
    in their csproj. Alternatively provide the property on the command line 
    via

        /p:AndroidUseAapt2=True

    Added in Xamarin.Android 8.3.

-   **AndroidAapt2CompileExtraArgs** &ndash; Specifies additional
    command-line options to pass to the **aapt2 compile** command when
    processing Android assets and resources.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 9.1.

-   **AndroidAapt2LinkExtraArgs** &ndash; Specifies additional
    command-line options to pass to the **aapt2 link** command when
    processing Android assets and resources.

    Added in Xamarin.Android 9.1.

<a name="Signing_Properties" />

### Signing Properties

Signing properties control how the Application package is signed so
that it may be installed onto an Android device. To allow
quicker build iteration, the Xamarin.Android tasks do not sign packages
during the build process, because signing is quite slow. Instead, they
are signed (if necessary) before installation or during export, by the
IDE or the *Install* build target. Invoking the *SignAndroidPackage*
target will produce a package with the `-Signed.apk` suffix in the
output directory.

By default, the signing target generates a new debug-signing key if
necessary. If you wish to use a specific key, for example on a build
server, the following MSBuild properties can be used:

-   **AndroidKeyStore** &ndash; A boolean value which indicates whether
    custom signing information should be used. The default value is
    `False`, meaning that the default debug-signing key will be used
    to sign packages.

-   **AndroidSigningKeyAlias** &ndash; Specifies the alias for the key
    in the keystore. This is the **keytool -alias** value used when
    creating the keystore. 

-   **AndroidSigningKeyPass** &ndash;
    Specifies the password of the key within the keystore file. This is
    the value entered when `keytool` asks **Enter key password for
    $(AndroidSigningKeyAlias)**.

-   **AndroidSigningKeyStore** &ndash; Specifies the filename of the
    keystore file created by `keytool`. This corresponds to the value
    provided to the **keytool -keystore** option.

-   **AndroidSigningStorePass** &ndash; Specifies the password to
    `$(AndroidSigningKeyStore)`. This is the value provided to
    `keytool` when creating the keystore file and asked **Enter
    keystore password:**. 

For example, consider the following `keytool` invocation:

```shell
$ keytool -genkey -v -keystore filename.keystore -alias keystore.alias -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000
Enter keystore password: keystore.filename password
Re-enter new password: keystore.filename password
...
Is CN=... correct?
  [no]:  yes

Generating 2,048 bit RSA key pair and self-signed certificate (SHA1withRSA) with a validity of 10,000 days
        for: ...
Enter key password for keystore.alias
        (RETURN if same as keystore password): keystore.alias password
[Storing filename.keystore]
```

To use the keystore generated above, use the property group:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
    <AndroidKeyStore>True</AndroidKeyStore>
    <AndroidSigningKeyStore>filename.keystore</AndroidSigningKeyStore>
    <AndroidSigningStorePass>keystore.filename password</AndroidSigningStorePass>
    <AndroidSigningKeyAlias>keystore.alias</AndroidSigningKeyAlias>
    <AndroidSigningKeyPass>keystore.alias password</AndroidSigningKeyPass>
</PropertyGroup>
```

-   **AndroidDebugKeyAlgorithm** &ndash; Specifies the default
    algorithm to use for the `debug.keystore`. It defaults to
    `RSA`.

-   **AndroidDebugKeyValidity** &ndash; Specifies the default
    validity to use for the `debug.keystore`. It defaults to
    `10950` or `30 * 365` or `30 years`.

<a name="Build_Actions" />

## Build Actions

*Build actions* are 
[applied to files](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb629388.aspx) 
within the project and control how the file is processed. 

<a name="AndroidEnvironment" />

### AndroidEnvironment

Files with a Build action of `AndroidEnvironment` are used
to [initialize environment variables and system properties during process startup](~/android/deploy-test/environment.md).
The `AndroidEnvironment` Build action may be applied to
multiple files, and they will be evaluated in no particular order (so don't
specify the same environment variable or system property in multiple
files).


### AndroidJavaSource

Files with a Build action of `AndroidJavaSource` are Java source code which
will be included in the final Android package.


### AndroidJavaLibrary

Files with a Build action of `AndroidJavaLibrary` are Java
Archives ( `.jar` files) which will be included in the final Android
package.


### AndroidResource

All files with an *AndroidResource* build action are compiled into
Android resources during the build process and made accessible via `$(AndroidResgenFile)`.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <AndroidResource Include="Resources\values\strings.xml" />
</ItemGroup>
```

More advanced users might perhaps wish to have different resources used in
different configurations but with the same effective path. This can be achieved
by having multiple resource directories and having files with the same relative
paths within these different directories, and using MSBuild conditions to
conditionally include different files in different configurations. For
example:

```xml
<ItemGroup Condition="'$(Configuration)'!='Debug'">
  <AndroidResource Include="Resources\values\strings.xml" />
</ItemGroup>
<ItemGroup  Condition="'$(Configuration)'=='Debug'">
  <AndroidResource Include="Resources-Debug\values\strings.xml"/>
</ItemGroup>
<PropertyGroup>
  <MonoAndroidResourcePrefix>Resources;Resources-Debug<MonoAndroidResourcePrefix>
</PropertyGroup>
```

**LogicalName** &ndash; Specifies the resource path explicitly. Allows
&ldquo;aliasing&rdquo; files so that they will be available as multiple
distinct resource names.

```xml
<ItemGroup Condition="'$(Configuration)'!='Debug'">
  <AndroidResource Include="Resources/values/strings.xml"/>
</ItemGroup>
<ItemGroup Condition="'$(Configuration)'=='Debug'">
  <AndroidResource Include="Resources-Debug/values/strings.xml">
    <LogicalName>values/strings.xml</LogicalName>
  </AndroidResource>
</ItemGroup>
```

### AndroidBoundLayout

Indicates that the layout file is to have code-behind generated for it in case when
the `AndroidGenerateLayoutBindings` property is set to `false`. In all other aspects
it is identical to `AndroidResource` described above. This action can be used **only**
with layout files:

```xml
<AndroidBoundLayout Include="Resources\layout\Main.axml" />
```

### AndroidFragmentType

Specifies the default fully qualified type to be used for all `<fragment>` layout 
elements when generating the layout bindings code. The property defaults to the standard
Android `Android.App.Fragment` type.


### AndroidNativeLibrary

[Native libraries](~/android/platform/native-libraries.md)
are added to the build by setting their Build action to
`AndroidNativeLibrary`.

Note that since Android supports multiple Application Binary Interfaces
(ABIs), the build system must know which ABI the native library is
built for. There are two ways this can be done:

1.  Path "sniffing".
2.  Using the  `Abi` item attribute.

With path sniffing, the parent directory name of the native library is 
used to specify the ABI that the library targets. Thus, if you add 
`lib/armeabi-v7a/libfoo.so` to the build, then the ABI will be "sniffed" as 
`armeabi-v7a`. 


#### Item Attribute Name

**Abi** &ndash; Specifies the ABI of the native library.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <AndroidNativeLibrary Include="path/to/libfoo.so">
    <Abi>armeabi-v7a</Abi>
  </AndroidNativeLibrary>
</ItemGroup>
```


### AndroidAarLibrary

The Build action of `AndroidAarLibrary` should be used to directly
reference .aar files. This build action will be most commonly used
by Xamarin Components. Namely to include references to .aar files 
which are required to get Google Play and other services working.

Files with this Build action will be treated in a similar fashion too
the embedded resources found in Library projects. The .aar will be 
extracted into the intermediate directory. Then any assets, resource
and .jar files will be included in the appropriate item groups. 

### AndroidLintConfig

The Build action 'AndroidLintConfig' should be used in conjunction with 
the `AndroidLintEnabled` build property. Files with this build action
will be merged together and passed to the android `lint` tooling. They
should be xml files which contain information on which tests to 
enabled/disabled.

See the [lint documentation](http://www.androiddocs.com/tools/help/lint.html)
for more details.

### Content

The normal `Content` Build action is not supported (as we
haven't figured out how to support it without a possibly costly first-run
step).

Starting in Xamarin.Android 5.1, attempting to use thw `@(Content)`
Build action will result in a `XA0101` warning.

### LinkDescription

Files with a *LinkDescription* build action are used to
[control linker behavior](~/cross-platform/deploy-test/linker.md).


<a name="ProguardConfiguration" />

### ProguardConfiguration

Files with a *ProguardConfiguration* build action contain options which 
are used to control `proguard` behavior. For more information about 
this build action, see 
[ProGuard](~/android/deploy-test/release-prep/proguard.md).

These files are ignored unless the `$(EnableProguard)` MSBuild property
is `True`.


## Target Definitions

The Xamarin.Android-specific parts of the build process are defined in 
`$(MSBuildExtensionsPath)\Xamarin\Android\Xamarin.Android.CSharp.targets`,
but normal language-specific targets such as *Microsoft.CSharp.targets*
are also required to build the assembly.

The following build properties must be set before importing any language
targets:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <TargetFrameworkIdentifier>MonoDroid</TargetFrameworkIdentifier>
  <MonoDroidVersion>v1.0</MonoDroidVersion>
  <TargetFrameworkVersion>v2.2</TargetFrameworkVersion>
</PropertyGroup>
```

All of these these targets and properties can be included for C# by 
importing *Xamarin.Android.CSharp.targets*: 

```xml
<Import Project="$(MSBuildExtensionsPath)\Xamarin\Android\Xamarin.Android.CSharp.targets" />
```

This file can easily be adapted for other languages.
