Documentation/workflow/HowToAddNewApiLevel.md, before:

# HowTo: Add a new Android API Level

## Developer Preview

The first developer preview generally ships in late February or early March.  At this early
stage for the APIs, we simply add literal bindings for them.  We do not spend resources on
the more manual parts like enumification that will likely change as the APIs mature.

### Add New Platform to `xaprepare`

- Add new level to `/build-tools/xaprepare/xaprepare/ConfigAndData/BuildAndroidPlatforms.cs`:
  - `new AndroidPlatform (apiName: "S", apiLevel: 31, platformID: "S", include: "v11.0.99", framework: "v11.0.99", stable: false),`
- Add new level to `/build-tools/xaprepare/xaprepare/ConfigAndData/Dependencies/AndroidToolchain.cs`:
  - `new AndroidPlatformComponent ("platform-S_r01", apiLevel: "S", pkgRevision: "1"),`
  
At this point, you can run `Xamarin.Android.sln /t:Prepare` using your usual mechanism, and
the new platform will be downloaded to your local Android SDK.

### Generate `params.txt` File

- In `/external/Java.Interop/tools/param-name-importer`:
  - Run: `dotnet run -source-stub-zip C:/Users/USERNAME/android-toolchain/platforms/android-35/android-stubs-src.jar -output-text api-35.params.txt -output-xml api-35.params.xml -verbose -framework-only`
- Copy the produced `api-X.params.txt` file to `/src/Mono.Android/Profiles/`

### Generate `api.xml` File

- Run `xaprepare android-sdk-platforms=all` to download all Android SDK platforms
- Add level to `/build-tools/api-merge/merge-configuration.xml` to create `api-S.xml.class-parse`
- Run the following command to create a merged `api.xml`:
  - `dotnet-local.cmd build build-tools\create-android-api -t:GenerateApiDescription`
- Copy the `bin\BuildDebug\api\api-xx.xml` file to `src\Mono.Android\Profiles`

### Other Infrastructure Changes

- Add level to `/build-tools/Xamarin.Android.Tools.BootstrapTasks/Xamarin.Android.Tools.BootstrapTasks/CheckApiCompatibility.cs`
  to enable running ApiCompat against the new level. (ex: `{ "v11.0.99", "v11.0" }`)
- Add level to `/build-tools/api-xml-adjuster/Makefile`
- LOCAL ONLY: Update `Configuration.props` or `Configuration.Override.props` to specify building the new level:
  - `<AndroidApiLevel>31</AndroidApiLevel>`
  - `<AndroidPlatformId>S</AndroidPlatformId>`
  - `<AndroidFrameworkVersion>v11.0.99</AndroidFrameworkVersion>`

### Building the New Mono.Android

- Build `Xamarin.Android.sln` with your usual mechanism, and the new `Mono.Android.dll` should be built
- Read the note at the bottom of `/src/Mono.Android/metadata` that has a few lines that must be 
  copy/pasted for new API levels
- Add required metadata fixes in `/src/Mono.Android/metadata` until `Mono.Android.csproj` builds
  - Check that new package/namespaces are properly cased
  
### ApiCompat

There may be ApiCompat issues that need to be examined.  Either fix the assembly with metadata or allow
acceptable "breaks":

- Add new file to `/tests/api-compatibility`, like `acceptable-breakages-v11.0.99.txt`
- Copy errors reported from ApiCompat task to acceptable breakages file

## Bindings Stabilization

When Google announces that the APIs are frozen, additional work such as enumification is needed.

There have been many, many attempts to "automate" the enumification process in the past, to varying
degrees of success.  The main problem is that no automated process is going to be perfect, so
they all rely on a human verifying and modifying the results.

However this verification process is long and tedious.  Doing it correctly requires almost as much
effort as doing the full process manually.  Thus it generally isn't done correctly and many errors
slip in, leaving our users with bad bindings that are hard to fix in the future without breaking API.

Currently we have taken the opposite approach and do the process completely manually, but we 
have invested in tooling to make the process as easy as possible.

This tooling is BindingStudio:
https://github.com/jpobst/BindingStudio

It's a Winforms app, so it only runs on Windows.  It's ugly as sin, and has very poor UX.  However,
it prompts you with the exact decisions you need to make, and handles as much dirty work as possible,
allowing enumification to be done in a few days.

### Extract constants from API

Using BindingStudio:

- Update `CURRENT_API_LEVEL` in MainForm.cs
- Choose `Tools` -> `Add API Level Constants`
  - Fill in existing `map.csv`: `xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/map.csv`
  - Fill in new `api.xml`: ex: `xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/obj/Debug/net6.0/android-32/mcw/api.xml`
- Choose `File` -> `Save`

This adds all the new possible constants from the API level to `map.csv`.  They will be
marked with a `?` indicating no determination has been made if they should be enumified or not.

Example:
```
?,32,android/media/Spatializer.SPATIALIZER_IMMERSIVE_LEVEL_MULTICHANNEL,1,,,,
?,32,android/media/Spatializer.SPATIALIZER_IMMERSIVE_LEVEL_NONE,0,,,,
?,32,android/media/Spatializer.SPATIALIZER_IMMERSIVE_LEVEL_OTHER,-1,,,,
```

### Creating enums

Using BindingStudio:

- Choose `File` -> `Open Constant Map`
- Choose existing `map.csv`: `xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/map.csv`

The left tree view will be populated with every type that has possible constants that require
a decision.  Clicking a tree node will show the grid of all constants in the type.  The ones 
that need to be handled are the ones with `Action` = `None`.  (The others are shown because
sometimes the correct action is to add a new constant to an existing enum.)

Select the row(s) containing the constants you want to act on.  (Use Control and Shift to select
multiple rows.)  There are 3 possible options for constants:

1) Ignore

If the constant(s) should not be part of an enum (like `Math.PI`), click the `Ignore` toolbar 
button to leave them as constants.

2) Add to existing enum

If the constant(s) should be added to an existing enum:
- Click the `Add to existing enum` toolbar button.
- The dialog will show all other enums in this type
- Choose the existing enum to add the new constant(s) to
- After accepting the dialog, you may need to click the grid to cause it to refresh
- The constant(s) will be marked as `Enumify` with the `EnumFullType` you specified
- The enum member names may need to be tweaked by changing the `EnumMember` column

3) Create a new enum

If the constant(s) should be added to a brand new enum:
- Click the `Create Enum` toolbar button
- In the dialog, a suggested enum namespace and name will be pre-populated. This may need to be
  tweaked as needed.
  - Mark `Is Flags` if this should be a `[Flags]` enum type.
- After accepting the dialog, you may need to click the grid to cause it to refresh
- The constant(s) will be marked as `Enumify` with the `EnumFullType` you specified
- The enum member names may need to be tweaked by changing the `EnumMember` column

Once decisions have been made for all new constants in a type, use the left tree view to move
to the next type.  You should periodically save your progress with `File` -> `Save` in case
BindingStudio crashes.

The left tree view can be updated by saving and reopening the `map.csv` file.

### Extract methods that possibly need enums

Using BindingStudio:

- Update the file paths in `MainForm.FindAPILevelMethodsToolStripMenuItem_Click`
- Run BindingStudio and choose `Tools` -> `Find API Level Methods`

This will create a file of every method in the new API level that takes an `int` as a parameter
or returns an `int` as a return value.  Each method will be marked with a `?` in the file
to indicate a decision needs to be made to ignore it or map it to an enum.

Example:
```
?,32,android/media,AudioAttributes,getSpatializationBehavior,return,
?,32,android/media,AudioAttributes$Builder,setSpatializationBehavior,sb,
```

### Mapping methods

Using BindingStudio:

- Choose `File` -> `Open Constant Map`
  - Choose existing `map.csv`: `xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/map.csv`
- Choose `File` -> `Open Method Map`
  - Choose the new `.csv` created in the previous step

The left tree will populate with every method that possibly should be enumified and
needs a decision to be made.  Clicking a method shows the Android documentation for
the method to help make the decision, as well as an area to input the decision.

Note a method may show up multiple times, once for each parameter or return type 
(Parameter Name = "return") that is an int.  Each one may require a different action.

There are 3 possible options for a method parameter/return type:

1) Unknown

You don't how to handle this method currently, so leaving it in the initial state
of "Unknown" will leave it alone until a decision can be made.

2) Ignore

The method parameter/return type should remain an `int` and not be converted to an enum.

Ex: 
```
int Add (int value1, int value2) { ... }
```

Click the "Ignore" radio button and then the "Save" button.

3) Enumify

The method parameter/return type should be changed to an enum.

Ex:
```
void AudioAttributesBuilder.SetSpatializationBehavior (int sb) { ... }
```

- Choose the "Enumify" radio option
- Use the DropDown in the middle to select the enum to use
  - When selected, the members of that enum will be shown in the box below the enum
- Alternatively, search for a enum by enum member name using the Search box in the right
  - If desired enum is found, clicking it will populate dropdown
- Click "Save"

Use `File` -> `Save` to save your work often!

### Finishing the method map

The official `methodmap.csv` uses a slightly different format than the one used for enumification.

Using BindingStudio:
- Ensure the "new api level method map" CSV file is loaded.
- Choose `Tools` -> `Export Final Method Map`
- Choose a temporary file name
- Open the temporary file, copy the contents to the bottom of the official:
  - xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/methodmap.csv

Congrats! Enumification is complete!

---- Somewhat outdated docs below, update when we do this year's stabilization ----

6) new AndroidManifest.xml elements and attributes

`build-tools/manifest-attribute-codegen/manifest-attribute-codegen.cs` can be compiled to a tool that collects all Manifest elements and attributes with the API level since when each of them became available. New members are supposed to be added to the existing `(FooBar)Attribute.cs` and `(FooBar)Attribute.Partial.cs` in `src/Mono.Android` and `src/Xamarin.Android.Build.Tasks` respectively.

Note that there are documented and undocumented XML nodes, and we don't have to deal with undocumented ones.

Android P introduced no documented XML artifact.

7) Update Android Tooling Versions

These sre located in [Xamarin.Android.Common.props.in](../../src/Xamarin.Android.Build.Tasks/Xamarin.Android.Common.props.in). The following MSBuild properties need to be updated to ensure 
the latest tool versions are being used.

`AndroidSdkBuildToolsVersion`
`AndroidSdkPlatformToolsVersion`
`AndroidSdkToolsVersion`

The major version should match the new API level. For Android P this will be 28.x.x . If a version which exactly matches the API Level is not available then the latest version should be used.

## Bindings Finalization


### Update BuildVersionCodes API Level Value

Our enumification process stores the value of the constants in `map.csv`. The build version code
constant for the preview API level is 10000, but changes to eg: 31 when the API goes stable.

Depending on when enumification was done, the 10000 may be stored instead of 31. When the API
goes stable we must update `map.csv` to the correct value.

Search for `android/os/Build$VERSION_CODES` in `map.csv`.

Commit message:

[Mono.Android] Bind API-VanillaIceCream Beta 2 (#8948)
Context: https://developer.android.com/about/versions/15
Context: https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2024/05/the-second-beta-of-android-15.html
Context: d5b608e8e0c25816d4c5d8df6488ab4d021bd41c

Android 15 Beta 2 was released on 2024-May-15:

  * [API-VanillaIceCream Beta 2 vs. API-34][1]
  * [API-VanillaIceCream Beta 2 vs. Beta 1][2] (d5b608e8)

The Android 15 Developer Preview [Timeline and updates][0] section
suggests the following timeline:

  * Feb/Mar: Developer Previews
  * April/May: Unstable Betas
  * June/July: Stable Betas with a [Platform Stability milestone][3]
    (final API-35) expected in Beta 3
  * ???: Final

Beta 2 be usable in its preview form to .NET 9 Preview 5 users who
explicitly target `net9.0-android35`.

[0]: https://web.archive.org/web/20240514210701/https://developer.android.com/about/versions/15/overview#timeline
[1]: https://developer.android.com/sdk/api_diff/v-beta2/changes
[2]: https://developer.android.com/sdk/api_diff/v-beta2-incr/changes
[3]: https://web.archive.org/web/20240514210701/https://developer.android.com/about/versions/15/overview#platform_stability

Documentation/workflow/HowToAddNewApiLevel.md, after:

# HowTo: Add a new Android API Level

## Unstable Previews

The first unstable preview generally ships in late February or early March.  At this early
stage for the APIs, we simply add literal bindings for them.  We do not spend resources on
the more manual parts like enumification that will likely change as the APIs mature.

### Add New Platform to `xaprepare`

- Add new level to `/build-tools/xaprepare/xaprepare/ConfigAndData/BuildAndroidPlatforms.cs`:
  - `new AndroidPlatform (apiName: "S", apiLevel: 31, platformID: "S", include: "v11.0.99", framework: "v11.0.99", stable: false),`
- Add new level to `/build-tools/xaprepare/xaprepare/ConfigAndData/Dependencies/AndroidToolchain.cs`:
  - `new AndroidPlatformComponent ("platform-S_r01", apiLevel: "S", pkgRevision: "1"),`
  
At this point, you can run `Xamarin.Android.sln -t:Prepare` using your usual mechanism, and
the new platform will be downloaded to your local Android SDK.

### Build Xamarin.Android

Build `Xamarin.Android.sln` using your usual mechanism. This will not use the new platform yet,
but will build the tools like `param-name-importer` and `class-parse` that will be needed
in the next steps.

### Generate `params.txt` File

Build the `params.txt` file for the desired level:

- Unstable: `dotnet-local.cmd build build-tools/create-android-api -t:GenerateParamsFile -p:ParamApiLevel=VanillaIceCream`
- Stable: `dotnet-local.cmd build build-tools/create-android-api -t:GenerateParamsFile -p:ParamApiLevel=35`

This will create a `api-XX.params.txt` file in `/src/Mono.Android/Profiles/` that needs to be committed.

### Generate `api.xml` File

- Run `xaprepare android-sdk-platforms=all` to download all Android SDK platforms
- Add level to `/build-tools/api-merge/merge-configuration.xml` to create `api-S.xml.class-parse`
- Run the following command to create a merged `api.xml`:
  - `dotnet-local.cmd build build-tools/create-android-api -t:GenerateApiDescription`
  
This will create a `api-XX.xml` file in `/src/Mono.Android/Profiles/` that needs to be committed.

### Other Infrastructure Changes

- Add level to `/build-tools/Xamarin.Android.Tools.BootstrapTasks/Xamarin.Android.Tools.BootstrapTasks/CheckApiCompatibility.cs`
  to enable running ApiCompat against the new level. (ex: `{ "v11.0.99", "v11.0" }`)
- Add level to `/build-tools/api-xml-adjuster/Makefile`
- LOCAL ONLY: Update `Configuration.props` or `Configuration.Override.props` to specify building the new level:
  - `<AndroidApiLevel>31</AndroidApiLevel>`
  - `<AndroidPlatformId>S</AndroidPlatformId>`
  - `<AndroidFrameworkVersion>v11.0.99</AndroidFrameworkVersion>`

### Building the New Mono.Android

- Build `Xamarin.Android.sln` with your usual mechanism, and the new `Mono.Android.dll` should be built
- Read the note at the bottom of `/src/Mono.Android/metadata` that has a few lines that must be 
  copy/pasted for new API levels
- Add required metadata fixes in `/src/Mono.Android/metadata` until `Mono.Android.csproj` builds
  - Check that new package/namespaces are properly cased
  
### ApiCompat

There may be ApiCompat issues that need to be examined.  Either fix the assembly with metadata or allow
acceptable "breaks":

- Add new file to `/tests/api-compatibility`, like `acceptable-breakages-v11.0.99.txt`
- Copy errors reported from ApiCompat task to acceptable breakages file

## Bindings Stabilization

When Google announces that the APIs are frozen, additional work such as enumification is needed.

There have been many, many attempts to "automate" the enumification process in the past, to varying
degrees of success.  The main problem is that no automated process is going to be perfect, so
they all rely on a human verifying and modifying the results.

However this verification process is long and tedious.  Doing it correctly requires almost as much
effort as doing the full process manually.  Thus it generally isn't done correctly and many errors
slip in, leaving our users with bad bindings that are hard to fix in the future without breaking API.

Currently we have taken the opposite approach and do the process completely manually, but we 
have invested in tooling to make the process as easy as possible.

This tooling is BindingStudio:
https://github.com/jpobst/BindingStudio

It's a Winforms app, so it only runs on Windows.  It's ugly as sin, and has very poor UX.  However,
it prompts you with the exact decisions you need to make, and handles as much dirty work as possible,
allowing enumification to be done in a few days.

### Extract constants from API

Using BindingStudio:

- Update `CURRENT_API_LEVEL` in MainForm.cs
- Choose `Tools` -> `Add API Level Constants`
  - Fill in existing `map.csv`: `xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/map.csv`
  - Fill in new `api.xml`: ex: `xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/obj/Debug/net6.0/android-32/mcw/api.xml`
- Choose `File` -> `Save`

This adds all the new possible constants from the API level to `map.csv`.  They will be
marked with a `?` indicating no determination has been made if they should be enumified or not.

Example:
```
?,32,android/media/Spatializer.SPATIALIZER_IMMERSIVE_LEVEL_MULTICHANNEL,1,,,,
?,32,android/media/Spatializer.SPATIALIZER_IMMERSIVE_LEVEL_NONE,0,,,,
?,32,android/media/Spatializer.SPATIALIZER_IMMERSIVE_LEVEL_OTHER,-1,,,,
```

### Creating enums

Using BindingStudio:

- Choose `File` -> `Open Constant Map`
- Choose existing `map.csv`: `xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/map.csv`

The left tree view will be populated with every type that has possible constants that require
a decision.  Clicking a tree node will show the grid of all constants in the type.  The ones 
that need to be handled are the ones with `Action` = `None`.  (The others are shown because
sometimes the correct action is to add a new constant to an existing enum.)

Select the row(s) containing the constants you want to act on.  (Use Control and Shift to select
multiple rows.)  There are 3 possible options for constants:

1) Ignore

If the constant(s) should not be part of an enum (like `Math.PI`), click the `Ignore` toolbar 
button to leave them as constants.

2) Add to existing enum

If the constant(s) should be added to an existing enum:
- Click the `Add to existing enum` toolbar button.
- The dialog will show all other enums in this type
- Choose the existing enum to add the new constant(s) to
- After accepting the dialog, you may need to click the grid to cause it to refresh
- The constant(s) will be marked as `Enumify` with the `EnumFullType` you specified
- The enum member names may need to be tweaked by changing the `EnumMember` column

3) Create a new enum

If the constant(s) should be added to a brand new enum:
- Click the `Create Enum` toolbar button
- In the dialog, a suggested enum namespace and name will be pre-populated. This may need to be
  tweaked as needed.
  - Mark `Is Flags` if this should be a `[Flags]` enum type.
- After accepting the dialog, you may need to click the grid to cause it to refresh
- The constant(s) will be marked as `Enumify` with the `EnumFullType` you specified
- The enum member names may need to be tweaked by changing the `EnumMember` column

Once decisions have been made for all new constants in a type, use the left tree view to move
to the next type.  You should periodically save your progress with `File` -> `Save` in case
BindingStudio crashes.

The left tree view can be updated by saving and reopening the `map.csv` file.

### Extract methods that possibly need enums

Using BindingStudio:

- Update the file paths in `MainForm.FindAPILevelMethodsToolStripMenuItem_Click`
- Run BindingStudio and choose `Tools` -> `Find API Level Methods`

This will create a file of every method in the new API level that takes an `int` as a parameter
or returns an `int` as a return value.  Each method will be marked with a `?` in the file
to indicate a decision needs to be made to ignore it or map it to an enum.

Example:
```
?,32,android/media,AudioAttributes,getSpatializationBehavior,return,
?,32,android/media,AudioAttributes$Builder,setSpatializationBehavior,sb,
```

### Mapping methods

Using BindingStudio:

- Choose `File` -> `Open Constant Map`
  - Choose existing `map.csv`: `xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/map.csv`
- Choose `File` -> `Open Method Map`
  - Choose the new `.csv` created in the previous step

The left tree will populate with every method that possibly should be enumified and
needs a decision to be made.  Clicking a method shows the Android documentation for
the method to help make the decision, as well as an area to input the decision.

Note a method may show up multiple times, once for each parameter or return type 
(Parameter Name = "return") that is an int.  Each one may require a different action.

There are 3 possible options for a method parameter/return type:

1) Unknown

You don't how to handle this method currently, so leaving it in the initial state
of "Unknown" will leave it alone until a decision can be made.

2) Ignore

The method parameter/return type should remain an `int` and not be converted to an enum.

Ex: 
```
int Add (int value1, int value2) { ... }
```

Click the "Ignore" radio button and then the "Save" button.

3) Enumify

The method parameter/return type should be changed to an enum.

Ex:
```
void AudioAttributesBuilder.SetSpatializationBehavior (int sb) { ... }
```

- Choose the "Enumify" radio option
- Use the DropDown in the middle to select the enum to use
  - When selected, the members of that enum will be shown in the box below the enum
- Alternatively, search for a enum by enum member name using the Search box in the right
  - If desired enum is found, clicking it will populate dropdown
- Click "Save"

Use `File` -> `Save` to save your work often!

### Finishing the method map

The official `methodmap.csv` uses a slightly different format than the one used for enumification.

Using BindingStudio:
- Ensure the "new api level method map" CSV file is loaded.
- Choose `Tools` -> `Export Final Method Map`
- Choose a temporary file name
- Open the temporary file, copy the contents to the bottom of the official:
  - xamarin-android/src/Mono.Android/methodmap.csv

Congrats! Enumification is complete!

---- Somewhat outdated docs below, update when we do this year's stabilization ----

6) new AndroidManifest.xml elements and attributes

`build-tools/manifest-attribute-codegen/manifest-attribute-codegen.cs` can be compiled to a tool that collects all Manifest elements and attributes with the API level since when each of them became available. New members are supposed to be added to the existing `(FooBar)Attribute.cs` and `(FooBar)Attribute.Partial.cs` in `src/Mono.Android` and `src/Xamarin.Android.Build.Tasks` respectively.

Note that there are documented and undocumented XML nodes, and we don't have to deal with undocumented ones.

Android P introduced no documented XML artifact.

7) Update Android Tooling Versions

These sre located in [Xamarin.Android.Common.props.in](../../src/Xamarin.Android.Build.Tasks/Xamarin.Android.Common.props.in). The following MSBuild properties need to be updated to ensure 
the latest tool versions are being used.

`AndroidSdkBuildToolsVersion`
`AndroidSdkPlatformToolsVersion`
`AndroidSdkToolsVersion`

The major version should match the new API level. For Android P this will be 28.x.x . If a version which exactly matches the API Level is not available then the latest version should be used.

## Bindings Finalization


### Update BuildVersionCodes API Level Value

Our enumification process stores the value of the constants in `map.csv`. The build version code
constant for the preview API level is 10000, but changes to eg: 31 when the API goes stable.

Depending on when enumification was done, the 10000 may be stored instead of 31. When the API
goes stable we must update `map.csv` to the correct value.

Search for `android/os/Build$VERSION_CODES` in `map.csv`.
