---
title: Xamarin.Android error APT2264
description: APT2264 error code
ms.date: 12/16/2022
---
# Xamarin.Android error APT2264

## Issue

The tool `aapt2` is unable to resolve one of the files it was passed.
This is generally caused by the path being longer than the Maximum Path
length allowed on windows.

## Solution

The best way to avoid this is to ensure that your project is not located
deep in the folder structure.
For example if you create all of your projects in folders such as

`C:\Users\shelly\Visual Studio 2022\Android\MyProjects\Com.SomeReallyLongCompanyName.MyBrillantApplication\MyBrilliantApplicaiton.Android\`

you may well encounter problems with not only `aapt2` but also Ahead of Time
compilation. Keeping your project names and folder structures short, concise
will help work around these issues. For example instead of the above you could use

`C:\Work\Android\MyBrilliantApp`

Which is much shorter and much less likely to encounter path issues.

However this is not always possible. Sometimes a project or a environment requires
deep folder structures. Enabling long path support in Windows *might*
be enough to get your project working. Details on how to do this can be found
[here](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/fileio/maximum-file-path-limitation?tabs=registry#enable-long-paths-in-windows-10-version-1607-and-later).


If long path support does not work changing the location of the
`$(BaseIntermediateOutputPath)` can help solve these problems. In order for this
to work the setting MUST be changed before ANY build or restore occurs. To do this
you can make use of the MSBuild `Directory.Build.props` support.

Creating a `Directory.Build.props` file in your solution or project directory which
redefines the `$(BaseIntermediateOutputPath)` to somewhere nearer the root of the drive
with solve these issues. Adding a file with the following contents will create the `obj`
directory in a different location of your choosing.

```
<Project>
  <PropertyGroup>
      <BaseIntermediateOutputPath Condition=" '$(OS)' == 'Windows_NT' ">C:\Intermediate\$(ProjectName)</BaseIntermediateOutputPath>
      <BaseIntermediateOutputPath Condition=" '$(OS)' != 'Windows_NT' ">/tmp/Intermediate/$(ProjectName)</BaseIntermediateOutputPath>
  </PropertyGroup>
</Project
```

Using this technique will reduce the lengths of the paths sent to the various tools like `aapt2`.
Note this is generally only a Windows issue. So there is no need to override the `$(BaseIntermediateOutputPath)`
on Mac or Linux based environments. However you might want to override everywhere to be consistent.
