---
title: .NET for Android warning XA0149
description: XA0149 warning code
ms.date: 06/18/2026
f1_keywords:
  - "XA0149"
---

# .NET for Android warning XA0149

## Example messages

> warning XA0149: Ignoring legacy Xamarin.Android environment file '__AndroidEnvironment__abc123' from NuGet package 'Some.Old.Package' version '1.2.3' in assembly '/path/to/Some.Old.Package.dll'. Environment files from Xamarin.Android class libraries are not supported in .NET for Android. Use a newer version of this NuGet package or notify the library author.

> warning XA0149: Ignoring legacy Xamarin.Android environment file '__AndroidEnvironment__abc123' in assembly '/path/to/SomeLibrary.dll'. Environment files from Xamarin.Android class libraries are not supported in .NET for Android. Use a newer version of this assembly or notify the library author.

## Issue

A referenced assembly (typically from an older Xamarin.Android class
library or a NuGet package targeting `MonoAndroid`) contains an embedded
`__AndroidEnvironment__*` resource. .NET for Android does not consume
environment files contributed by class libraries via this legacy
mechanism, so the file is being ignored.

This is closely related to the
[NU1703](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/reference/errors-and-warnings/nu1703)
warning that NuGet emits for packages still targeting the deprecated
`MonoAndroid` framework.

## Solution

Update to a version of the NuGet package or library that targets
`net-android` (.NET for Android). If you maintain the library, rebuild
it as a .NET for Android class library so that any environment variables
are produced in the supported `.net/env/` AAR layout.

If the environment variables are required by your application, declare
them directly in your app project using an `@(AndroidEnvironment)`
item:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <AndroidEnvironment Include="env.txt" />
</ItemGroup>
```
