---
title: .NET for Android warning XA1041
description: XA1041 error code
ms.date: 03/31/2025
---
# .NET for Android error XA1041

## Example messages

```dotnetcli
error XA1040: The MSBuild property 'MonoAndroidAssetPrefix' has an invalid value of 'c:\Foo\Assets'. The value is expected to be a directory path representing the relative location of your Assets or Resources.
error XA1040: The MSBuild property 'MonoAndroidResourcePrefix' has an invalid value of 'c:\Foo\Resources'.The value is expected to be a directory path representing the relative location of your Assets or Resources.
```

## Issue

The problem there is that both the `MonoAndroidAssetPrefix` and `MonoAndroidResourcePrefix` are expected to be
relative directory path . This information is used to "strip" the root directory
information off the asset or resource when we package the app.
The error is raised because the property contains a full path.

For example consider the following structure.

```dotnetcli
Foo.csproj
MyAssets/
    Foo.txt
    Subfolder/
        Bar.txt
MainAcrivity.cs
```

In the final `.apk` we expect the files `Foo.txt` and `Bar.txt` to be placed in the `assets` folder. In order to do this correctly the build system needs to know
the `name` of the folder in which the assets are located. By default this is "Assets" but we should also support other folder name.

In the example above we would expect the user to set the `MonoAndroidAssetPrefix` to a value of "MyAssets". This would ensure that the "MyAssets" part of the path
to "Foo.txt" etc is removed during packaging. If the `MonoAndroidAssetPrefix` as set to
`/Users/xxx/Foo/MyAssets` or `c:\Users\xxx\Foo\MyAssets` you would see this error message.

## Solution

The fix for this is to not use a full path for the values of `MonoAndroidAssetPrefix` or `MonoAndroidResourcePrefix`. They should be a relative
directory path which matches the folder path in which your assets are stored.
