---
title: .NET for Android error/warning XA4301
description: XA4301 error/warning code
ms.date: 04/11/2024
---
# .NET for Android error/warning XA4301

## Issue

This message indicates a problem adding an Android native library (*\*.so* file)
to your .NET for Android project's APK file during the build.

Situations include:

  - .NET for Android is unable to determine the Android ABI for the library.
      - If coming from an assembly reference, .NET for Android will skip this
        file and emit a warning mentioning the file.
      - If coming from within the .NET for Android project, .NET for Android will
        give an error mentioning the file.
  - Duplicate instances of native libraries were found.
      - .NET for Android will include the first entry in the APK and emit a
        warning indicating the duplicate file.

See the [Android documentation][abi-docs] to learn about Android ABIs.

[abi-docs]: https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/abis

Common causes:

  - The .NET for Android project contains either an `@(EmbeddedNativeLibrary)`
    or `@(AndroidNativeLibrary)` build action in a directory that is not named
    a valid Android ABI.
  - The .NET for Android project is referencing two Android library projects
    that contain the same native library via an `@(EmbeddedNativeLibrary)` or
    `@(AndroidNativeLibrary)` build item.

## Solution

  - Place any Android native libraries within a directory in your
    .NET for Android project named with the appropriate ABI, such as
    *arm64-v8a*, *armeabi-v7a*, *x86*, or *x86_64*.
  - Remove any duplicate instances of the native library.
